# More Linked List practice

- Create a new BlueJ project named **`hw12-leaderboard`**.

# Background

You have been tasked by a famous game development company with developing code to maintain a leaderboard of players' scores. You are to develop a class named `LeaderBoard` that allows you to add entries to a list of player scores. The class will be initialized with a maximum list size, *n*, so that if the length of the list grows beyond that size, it should be truncated to the top *n* scores, dropping the extra ones. (For this project, we'll allow duplicate player names in the leader board.)

To get you started, here is a class to keep track of player score entries:

```
/**
 * Represents a player and their score
 */
public class Entry
{
   private String name;
   private int score;
   
   public Entry(String nm, int sc) {
       name = nm;
       score = sc;
    }
    
    public boolean betterThan(Entry other) {
        return this.score > other.score || 
          (this.score == other.score && this.name.compareTo(other.name) < 0);
    }
   
   public String toString() {
       return name + ": " + score;
    }
}
```

(Note that the `betterThan` method above orders `Entry` objects by the score value, or else according to alphabetical order of the player name if the scores are equal.)



# Tasks

1. Design a class `LeaderBoard`, that keeps track of a list of entries (above) using an **imperative-style linked list** of nodes. (Define an `EntryNode` class.)

2. The constructor for `LeaderBoard` should take a single integer that is the maximum number of scores to keep track of at any point in time.

3. Define a method in the `LeaderBoard`:
   
    ```
    public void add(String name, int score)
    ```

    that adds a score `Entry` object to the list of scores **in proper sorted order**. That is, it should add the new score `Entry` in its proper position (use the `betterThan` method above for ordering) in the existing list of scores that the `LeaderBoard` contains.

4. The `add` method above should check, at the end of adding the new `Entry`, whether the length of the list of high scores has exceeded the maximum desired. If so, it should drop the last entry in the list (i.e. the lowest score of all the current ones). It may be helpful to define a helper function `dropLast()` that achieves this task.

5. Design a `toString` method for your `LeaderBoard` class that produces a string representation: each score entry should be on a line by itself (using the `toString` of the `Entry` class, and `\n` for newlines in between each).


