# Arrays • Indexed `for` loops

Start a new BlueJ project named **hw18-arrays** and copy the following files into it (click the "Raw" button and then "File" menu -> "Save" the files to download them).
- [KickBoxer.java](KickBoxer.java)
- [kickboxing.txt](kickboxing.txt)
- [windscale.txt](windscale.txt)

---

# Reading

Please browse the following documentation to review what we cover in lecture about arrays.

- http://greenteapress.com/thinkjava6/html/thinkjava6009.html
- https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/arrays.html


---

# Task

The `KickBoxer.java` program provided reads in values from the keyboard and prints the corresponding kickboxing weight-class according to the table below.

```
weight class              from    to
------------------------------------
Fly Weight                   0   112
Super Fly Weight           112   115
Bantam Weight",            115   118
Super Bantam Weight        118   122
Feather Weight             122   126
Super Feather Weight       126   130
Light Weight               130   135
Super Light Weight         135   140
Welter Weight              140   147
Super Welter Weight        147   154
Middle Weight              154   160
Super Middle Weight        160   167
Light Heavy Weight         167   174
Super Light Heavy Weight   174   183
Cruiser Weight             183   189
Super Cruiser Weight       189   198
Heavy Weight               198   209
Super Heavy Weight         209   ...
```

Instead of using a mass of `if/else if` statements to achieve its job it uses an integer array to store the weight limits and a string array to store the weight categories (ranging from `Flyweight` to `Super Heavyweight`). A short `for`-loop with an `if`-statement inside of it figures out where the input values falls in the table.

Study the `KickBoxer.java` code to understand how it works. The use of two arrays like this is known as using "parallel arrays." (An alternative would be to use a single array of objects; each object having integer and String fields.)

Your task is to generalize this program so that it loads a table of categories from a text file and allows the user to type in values whose category is then reported according to that table. Two sample data files are included (`"kickboxing.txt"` and `"windscale.txt"`). Each data file first contains the number of rows in the table followed by that many lines, where each line contains the lower limit of the particular category, followed by the name or description of the category.

Start a new class named `Categorizer` and write a program in it that reads in the table from a data file and stores the information in two arrays (just like `KickBoxer`). It should then allow the user to input values and the name/description of the category should be printed out. For example, here is a sample run with the `windscale.txt` data file loaded:

```
Enter integer values to categorize ('q' to quit):
0
Calm
4
Light breeze
45
Gale
90
Hurricane
100
Hurricane
70
Violent storm
q
```

Note that the category names/descriptions may contain spaces. You should use the `nextInt` method on a `Scanner` to read in the integer values, and use `nextLine` to read in the remainder of the line. You might want to also use the `String` class's `trim` method to get rid of extra spacing around the line that is read in.

**Hint:** Your program will be very similar to the KickBoxer code. You essentially need to just replace the hardcoded definitions of `int[] weights` and `String[] categories` with code that reads in the data from a specified file name.

