# Console & File Input/Output

- Create a new BlueJ project named **`hw13-io`**. You will need to copy over files from previous activities as indicated. 
  
- There are two sets of tasks to complete below.

---

# Tasks: LeaderBoard

(Start with your code from `hw12`.)

You have been asked to enhance your `LeaderBoard` class from the previous activity to provide better usability for clients. Your class now needs to be able to read data from a file (given a `Scanner` object initialized to read from a file), and print out the scores (to a terminal window on the screen), one per line. Scores should appear in sorted order, with highest (largest) scores first. 

1. Define a function

    ```
    public void loadData(Scanner sc)
    ```

    that reads in scores from a data file and repeatedly `add()`s them to the `LeaderBoard`. Here are some sample data files for testing:

    - [data-1000.txt](data-1000.txt)
    - [data-100000.txt](data-100000.txt)


2. Define a `display()` function that prints out the current leaderboard to standard output (i.e. the terminal window in BlueJ).

3. Now, you should be able to define a class with a main method like this to read in data and print the top n scores in the final leaderboard:

    ```
    public static void main(String[] args)
        throws FileNotFoundException {
    LeaderBoard lb = new LeaderBoard(10);
    lb.loadData(new Scanner(new File("data-1000.txt")));
    lb.display();
    }
    ```

Here is my output for the `main()` code above:

```
Isiahi: 2500
Marcela: 2495
Rosaline: 2495
Guillaume: 2490
Mead: 2490
Talyah: 2490
Tiebold: 2490
Valentia: 2490
Alyosha: 2485
Lily: 2485
``` 


---

# Tasks: QuestionGame

(Start with your code from `hw06` or `hw07`.)

Your goal for this task is to extend the game so that it saves and reloads the tree of knowledge (`IKNugget`) from a file, rather than having it hardcoded into the program.

1. Download and save this file (the "raw" version) to your BlueJ project folder with all your .java files: [questions.txt](questions.txt)

2. Add a `static` method to your `QuestionGame` class:

    ```
    public static IKNugget readKnowledge(Scanner sc)
    ```

    which reads in lines from a `Scanner` (initialized with a file object) and constructs a knowledge tree (`IKNugget`) from it. The function will be recursive and short - no more than 10 lines long.

    The [`startsWith`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#startsWith(java.lang.String)) and [`substring`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#substring(int)) methods of the built-in `String` class may be useful.
 
3. In the `main()` method, use the function you wrote above to read in the data from questions.txt to construct the initial knowledge tree:

    ```
    Scanner fsc = new Scanner(new File("questions.txt"));
    top = readKnowledge(fsc);
    fsc.close();
    ```
 
4. At the very end of the `main()` method, use a `PrintWriter` to print the string representation of the final tree (potentially with new knowledge added to it) to the `questions.txt` file. You can simply print the `toString()` representation of the entire tree to the file. Don't forget to close the file upon completion so that the data is saved.
 
---



