# Stack Applications

Start a new BlueJ project named **hw24-arith-expr**. Define your program for the task below in a class named **`ExpressionCompiler`**.

---

# Task: Compiling Arithmetic Expressions

(Review the lecture screencasts on manipulating arithmetic expressions as necessary.)

Your task for this part is to write a simple compiler (i.e. translator) from infix arithmetic expressions to an imaginary assembly language. Assembly language is "a human-readable notation for the machine language used to control a specific computer architecture" [wikipedia]. The imaginary assembly language instructions you will be generating here have the form:

```
add a b ==> c
mul b 3 ==> d
```

There are four assembly instructions, corresponding to the basic arithmetic operations: mul, div, add, sub.

Your final program should read an expression from standard input (keyboard) and print to standard output the compiled result: (the first line, prefixed by `>>>`, below represents the user's input):

```
>>> a + b - 56 * 34 / b3_3f
add   a   b ==>   var000
mul   56   34 ==>   var001
div   var001   b3_3f ==>   var002
sub   var000   var002 ==>   var003
```

As you can see, the compiler breaks the infix arithmetic expression into single arithmetic steps, storing the results in newly generated variable names as it goes.

## Algorithm

<small>(This problem taken from <em>Objects, Abstraction, Data Structures, and Design using Java</em> by Koffman and Wolfgang).</small>

Assume that the tokens (operators and operands) in the input string are separated by spaces. You will use two stacks in this algorithm. Your program should read in each token (a string) and process it as follows:

If the token is neither an operand nor an operator, display a helpful error message and terminate the program. If it is an operand, push it onto the operand stack. If it is an operator, compare its precedence to that of the operator on top of the operator stack. If the current operator has higher precedence than the one on top of the stack (or if the stack is empty), it should be pushed onto the operator stack. As long as the current operator has the same or lower precedence to the one on top of the operator stack, the operator on top of the operator stack must be evaluated next. This is done by popping that operator off the operator stack along with a pair of operands from the operand stack and writing a new line in the output table. The variable selected to hold the result should then be pushed onto the operand stack. Continue this process until the top of the operator stack has lower precedence than the current operator, or until the stack is empty. At this point, push the current operator onto the top of the stack and examine the next token in the input.

When the end of the input is reached, pop any remaining operator along with its operand pair and output a line. Remember to push the result variable onto the operand stack after each line of output is generated.

**Notes**

Don't make this problem harder than it is. Read the algorithm above and make sure you understand it well enough to be able to carry it out step by step with paper and pencil. (It might help you to rewrite the prose above in outline/pseudo-code form.) The completed program should probably not be longer than a screen or two of text. In implementing the algorithm, pay attention to the following programmatic details:

- Valid operands are either integer numbers or variable names made up of letters, numbers, and the underscore character. Variable names must not start with a digit, though. You may write a little function `isOperand` that uses methods from the `Character` class - `isDigit`, `isLetter` - to determine if a token is a valid operand.
  
- To generate temporary variable names, you can just keep an integer field (or local variable) for the next variable and concatenate it with the string `"var"` to create a name. Increment the field/local variable value after that. (Hint: Use something like `String newVarName = String.format("var%03d",  counter);` to format the variable name as shown in the output above. You can search online for information about Java's `String.format` method, e.g. https://dzone.com/articles/java-string-format-examples)
  
- To handle precedence, you can write a helper method that produces a precedence value (integer) for a given operator, then you can use relational operators <=, >=, etc. to compare the precedence of operators.
  
- To tokenize the input, you can use the `Scanner.next()` method - as in the [InfixToPostfix.java](../final/InfixToPostfix.java) example from class. Or you can read in a whole line at a time with `nextLine` and use the `split` method of String - as in [Evaluate.java](Evaluate.java). (The `" +"` argument in the call to split is a regular expression pattern that describes one or more spaces.)





