# Abstract Classes

- Set up the interface and classes in the following file in a BlueJ project named `hw080-abstract-books`.

    - [Books.java](Books.java)

# Background

The provided code implementation represents a library system that records the books that have been borrowed. There are three kinds of books: regular books, reference books, and audio books.

Reference books can be taken out for just two days, while other kinds of books may be borrowed for two weeks. The overdue fees are 10 cents per day for reference books and regular books, and 20 cents per day for audio books.

Audio books and regular books have both authors and titles; reference books only have titles.

The day when the book is taken out and the day due are counted as days since the library opened on New Year’s Day in 2001. So, for example, an audio book taken out recently would be recorded as taken out on the day 7171 with due date on the day 7185 ([September 3, 2020](http://google.com/search?q=days%20since%20january%201,%202001)).


```
               +-------+
               | IBook |
               +-------+
                  / \
                  ---
                   |
       ---------------------------------------
       |                  |                  |
+---------------+  +---------------+  +---------------+
| Book          |  | RefBook       |  | AudioBook     |
+---------------+  +---------------+  +---------------+
| String title  |  | String title  |  | String title  |
| String author |  | int dayTaken  |  | String author |
| int dayTaken  |  +---------------+  | int dayTaken  |
+---------------+                     +---------------+
```




*For all methods in the tasks below, think carefully whether they should be designed*
- *being implemented solely in the abstract class,*
- *implemented solely in the concrete classes,*
- *or implemented in the abstract class and then overridden in some of the concrete classes.*


# Tasks

- Define the abstract class `ABook` and lift those fields that can be lifted to this class.

- Design the method `daysOverdue` that consumes the number that represents today in the library date-recording system and produces the number of days this book is overdue. If the number is negative, the book can still be out for that many days.

- Design the method `isOverdue` that produces a `boolean` value that informs us whether the book is overdue on the given day.

- Design the method `computeFine` that computes the fine for this book, if the book is returned on the given day.



Here are some test cases:

```
    IBook b1 = new Book("The Hobbit", "Tolkein", 45);
    IBook b2 = new RefBook("Websters", 52);
    IBook b3 = new AudioBook("Alice in Wonderland", "L.C.", 38, 180);
	
    assertEquals( -9 , b1.daysOverdue(50) );
    assertEquals( 0 , b1.daysOverdue(59) );
    assertEquals( 6 , b1.daysOverdue(65) ); // 45+14 = 59
    assertEquals( 0 , b2.daysOverdue(54) );
    assertEquals( 1 , b2.daysOverdue(55) );
    
    assertTrue( b2.isOverdue(55) );
    assertFalse( b1.isOverdue(59) ) ;
```
