# Unions of Classes • Interfaces

- Create a BlueJ project folder named `hw03-interfaces`.

## Tasks


1. A software house that is working with a grocery chain receives this problem statement:

    *... Develop a program that keeps track of the **items** in the grocery store. For now, assume that the store deals only with **ice cream**, **coffee**, and **juice**. Each of the items is specified by its **brand name** (a `String`), **weight** (ounces) and **price** (in cents). Each coffee is also labeled as either __regular__ or **decaffeinated**. Juice items come in different **flavors**, and can be **packaged** as frozen, fresh, bottled, or canned. Each package of ice cream specifies its **flavor**. ...*

    * Define an interface and classes to represent the items described above.

    * Design the following methods. Put all your examples and tests in a file named `GroceryTest.java`.  

      * **`getPrice`**, which produces the sale price (in cents) of the item.

      * **`unitPrice`**, which computes the unit price (in whole cents per ounce) of a grocery item.

      * **`sellByDays`**, which computes how many *days* the item can remain on the shelf before it expires. Coffee can sit for a year (365 days). Ice cream can stay for 3 months (30 days in a month). Fresh and bottled juice must be sold in 2 weeks. Canned and frozen juice can be kept for one month.


      * **`markDown`**, which produces an updated item with updated price under the following conditions: ice cream and coffee that are priced over $10.00 *and* weigh more than 64 ounces have their price reduced by 10%. Frozen and canned juices are marked down 50 cents if their price is $2.00 or over. Other products are produced unchanged. 

        Write your tests for `markDown` by checking the price (`getPrice()`) of the item after it has been marked down. For example,

            assertEquals(599, ic1.markDown().getPrice());


2. An *integer sequence* can be specified by describing the relationship between each term and the next. Common examples of such sequences include *arithmetic progressions* and *geometric progressions*. In an [*arithmetic sequence*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic_progression), the difference between consecutive terms is constant, for example, `5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, . . .`, where the *common difference* is `2`.  In a [*geometric sequence*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_progression), each term after the first is found by multiplying the previous one by a fixed, non-zero number called the *common ratio*. For example, the sequence `2, 6, 18, 54, ...` is a geometric progression with common ratio `3`. 


    Design a union of classes to represent these different types of sequences. Your classes should implement the `interface` defined below and should conform to the tests in the provided [SequenceTest.java](SequenceTest.java).

        public interface ISequence {
            /**
             * Produces the current value at the front of this sequence.
             */
            int getCurrentValue();

            /**
             * Produces a description of the (long-term) progression of numbers in the sequence.
             * @return one of the strings "constant", "increasing", "decreasing", or "alternating"
             */
            String behavior();

            /**
             * Produces a sequeunce where the current value has been advanced to the 
             * next value in the sequence.
             */
            ISequence advanceNext();
        }
        
(Note: B. Head '23, since we only care about long-term behavior, a geometric sequence with current value -6 and common ratio of 0 will have `behavior() == "constant"`, even though it technically increases in the immediate first step.)        
        

3. **[BONUS == OPTIONAL]** Add a class to represent a Fibonacci sequence, which keeps track of both the previous value and the current value in order to advance the sequence to the next value. Instead of a `public` boilerplate constructor (which would allow anyone to construct bogus instances of a Fibonacci sequence), you might annotate the boilerplate constructor of your class as `private` and define an *overloaded* (we will learn about this later) version of a constructor that always sets up a new, proper Fibonacci sequence as follows:

        public FibonacciSeq() { 
            this.previousValue = 0;
            this.currentValue = 1;
        }

        private FibonacciSeq(int previousValue, int currentValue) {
            ... // boilerplate constructor

    Test cases are provided already in `SequenceTest.java`: just uncomment the `@Test` annotation above the `testFib()` method header.



---

## Rubric

- Interfaces defined and properly implemented by classes
- Classes contain specified fields
- Method bodies correctly defined
- Class, interface, and method comments
- Representative examples and test cases provided
- Code style (indentation, spacing, class & field names, capitalization conventions)

