# ArrayList

Start a new BlueJ project named **hw19-arraylist** and copy the following files into it (click the "Raw" button and then "File" menu -> "Save" the files to download them).
- [MyArrayList.java](MyArrayList.java)
- [MyArrayListTest.java](MyArrayListTest.java)

---

# Background

The built-in `LinkedList` class that we went over in class implements the [`List`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html) interface. An alternate implementation of [`List`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html) is to use an **array** instead of linked nodes of data. Your task is to fill in four of the basic methods of an array-based list implementation.

In the provided code above, you'll find a test class and a `MyArrayList` class that implements the [`List`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html) interface using an array. When you run the tests, many of them should fail. There are four methods that have `TODO` comments. You should browse the [`List`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html) documentation - read the overview and refer to the documentation for each of the four methods that you have to implement.

Before you start filling in the missing methods, let’s walk through some of the code. Here are the class definition, instance variables (fields), and constructor.

```
public class MyArrayList<E> implements List<E> {
    int size;                    // keeps track of the number of elements
    private E[] array;           // stores the elements
    
    public MyArrayList() {
        array = (E[]) new Object[10];
        size = 0;
    }
}
```

As the comments indicate, `size` keeps track of how many elements are actually stored in the `MyArrayList`, and `array` is the array that actually contains the elements.

The constructor creates an array with a *capacity* of 10 elements, all of which are initially `null`, and sets `size` to 0. Most of the time, the length of the array is bigger than `size`, so there are unused slots in the array.

One detail about Java: you can’t instantiate an array using a type parameter; for example, the following will not work:

```
   array = new E[10];
```

To work around this limitation, you have to instantiate an array of `Object` and then typecast it, like this:

```
   array = (E[])new Object[10];
```

For the methods of the class, let’s look at `get`; then you can get started on the exercises.

```
    public T get(int index) {
        if (index < 0 || index >= size) {
            throw new IndexOutOfBoundsException();
        }
        return array[index];
    }
```

Actually, `get` is pretty straightforward: if the `index` is out of bounds, it throws an exception; otherwise it reads and returns an element of the array. Notice that it checks whether the index is less than `size`, not `array.length`, because it does not make sense to access the "unused" elements of the array.

---

# Tasks

- The first method you should handle is `add()`, which adds elements to the list. If there are no unused spaces in the array, you should create a bigger array of twice the capacity of the current array and copy over the elements. Then we can store the element in the array and increment `size`. You may use [System.arraycopy](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/System.html#arraycopy-java.lang.Object-int-java.lang.Object-int-int-) to copy elements, or else use a loop. Don't forget to increment size. The method should always return true.

  (It might not be obvious why this method returns a `boolean`, since it seems like it always returns true. You may refer to [the documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Collection.html#add-E-) to understand why.)

- In MyArrayList.java, you’ll find a stub for `set()` that looks like this:

    ```
    public T set(int index, T element) {
        // TODO: fill in this method.
        return null;
    }
    ```

    Read the documentation of [`set`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html#set-int-E-) , then fill in the body of this method. If you run `MyArrayListTest` again, `testSet` (and probably some others) should pass.

    **HINT:** Try to avoid repeating the index-checking code.

- Your next mission is to fill in `indexOf`. As usual, you should read [the documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html#indexOf-java.lang.Object-) so you know what it’s supposed to do. In particular, notice how it is supposed to handle `null`.

    The provided code contains a helper method called `equals` that compares an element from the array to a target value and returns `true` if they are equal (and it handles `null` correctly). Notice that this method is `private` because it is only used inside this class; it is not part of the `List` interface.

    When you are done, run `MyArrayListTest` again; `testIndexOf` should pass now, as well as the other tests that depend on it.

- Last one: fill in the body of `remove`. The [documentation is here](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/List.html#remove-int-). When you finish this one, all tests should pass.

---

# Recap 

The `MyArrayList` class provides all the convenience of array-based operations, while overcoming the apparent limitations of arrays - namely, not being resizable. The built-in Java [`ArrayList`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/ArrayList.html) class provides a standard implementation of what you worked on for this task. In the future, you may use it if appropriate. For many data structures implementations in this course we will use primitive **arrays** directly to implement them, in order to contrast against a linked-structure based implementation.

> Aside: the test cases in `MyArrayListTest` use **`assertThat`**, which you can read more about here: https://objectpartners.com/2013/09/18/the-benefits-of-using-assertthat-over-other-assert-methods-in-unit-tests/ 




