# Self-Referential Data • Overloading Constructors

- Create a BlueJ project folder named `hw05-self-ref`.

## Background

The sliding-tiles game [2048](https://gabrielecirulli.github.io/2048/) was all the rage a couple of years ago. The gameplay itself is not that complicated; let's model some of the data behind it.

Conceptually, a game piece is either a *base tile* or a *merge tile* that has two component tiles it merged from. Every game piece can tell you its value, and can potentially merge with another game piece to form a combined tile. Assume all base tiles will have a positive, integer value: for 2048, the default starting value is 2.

Here is a data definition in the style of CSC120:

    ;; A GamePiece is one of:
    ;; -- (make-base-tile Number)
    ;; -- (make-merge-tile GamePiece GamePiece)

    (define-struct base-tile [value])
    (define-struct merge-tile [piece1 piece2])


## Tasks

- Convert the data definition above into Java classes and interfaces. Provide overloaded constructors for the _base-tile_ class, such that the "default constructor" (one without any parameters) initializes the value to 2.

  Here are some examples of data:

      IGamePiece b2 = new BaseTile();  // value should be 2
      IGamePiece b4 = new BaseTile(4);
      IGamePiece b8 = new BaseTile(8);
      IGamePiece b16 = new BaseTile(16);
      IGamePiece m4 = new MergeTile(b2, b2);
      IGamePiece m12 = new MergeTile(b4, b8);
      IGamePiece m16 = new MergeTile(b8, new MergeTile(b4, b4));
      IGamePiece m64 = new MergeTile(new MergeTile(m16, b16),
                                    new MergeTile(m16, m16));

- With the game-piece classes above, design the following methods. A set of basic test cases is provided to you [in this file](Game2048Tests.java).

  - Design a method `getValue` that returns the value of a game piece. The value of a merged tile is always the sum of the values of its components.

  - Design a method `biggestBase` that returns the largest base tile that can be found in the game piece.

  - Design a method `canMerge` that determines whether `this` game piece can be merged with the given game piece to form a merged piece, according to the rules of 2048: only equal-valued pieces can merge.

  - Design a method `isValid` that checks whether `this` game piece was constructed according to the rules of 2048. (Hint: use `canMerge`.)

  - Design a `toString` method for the pieces. Examine the provided test cases for the format.

  - Design a method `countMergedBases` that produces a count of the total number of base tiles _that have been combined into merged tiles_.



---

## Rubric

- Interfaces and classes defined appropriately
- Overloaded constructors for base tile
- Passes provided examples and test cases
- Code style (indentation, spacing, class & field names, capitalization conventions)
