# Java LinkedList; for-each loops

Start a new BlueJ project named **hw16-java-linkedlist**.


---

# Tasks

Define a new class named **`ListPractice`** with no fields and no constructor, and define the following methods. Add a test class named **`ListPracticeTest`**.

1. Write a static method `countLongStrings` that takes a list of Strings and counts how many of those Strings are longer than 5 characters. The String class has a length method.
 
2. Write a static method called `rainfall` that consumes a LinkedList<Double> representing daily rainfall readings. The list may contain the number -999 indicating the end of the data of interest. Produce the average of the non-negative values in the list up to the first -999 (if it shows up). There may be negative numbers other than -999 in the list (representing faulty readings). If you cannot compute the average for whatever reason, return -1.

    For example, given a list containing (1.0, -2.0, 5.0, -999.0, 8.0), the program would return 3.0 (the average of 1.0 and 5.0).
 
3. Write a static method called `maxThreeLength` that consumes a LinkedList<String> and produces the length of the longest concatenation of three consecutive elements. Assume the input contains at least three strings.

    For example, given a list containing ["a", "bb", "c", "dd", "e"], the program would return 5 (for "bb", "c", "dd").

 ---

Here's a walkthrough of solutions to #2 above:

 <iframe id="kaltura_player" src="https://cdnapisec.kaltura.com/p/1891971/sp/189197100/embedIframeJs/uiconf_id/28341011/partner_id/1891971?iframeembed=true&playerId=kaltura_player&entry_id=1_yroxi50b&flashvars[streamerType]=auto&amp;flashvars[localizationCode]=en&amp;flashvars[leadWithHTML5]=true&amp;flashvars[sideBarContainer.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[sideBarContainer.position]=left&amp;flashvars[sideBarContainer.clickToClose]=true&amp;flashvars[chapters.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[chapters.layout]=vertical&amp;flashvars[chapters.thumbnailRotator]=false&amp;flashvars[streamSelector.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[EmbedPlayer.SpinnerTarget]=videoHolder&amp;flashvars[dualScreen.plugin]=true&amp;flashvars[Kaltura.addCrossoriginToIframe]=true&amp;&wid=1_atyq4u2j" width="400" height="285" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozAllowFullScreen allow="autoplay *; fullscreen *; encrypted-media *" sandbox="allow-forms allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-top-navigation allow-pointer-lock allow-popups allow-modals allow-orientation-lock allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox allow-presentation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" frameborder="0" title="Kaltura Player"></iframe>
