# Types, Classes & Interfaces • Object Containment 

- Create a BlueJ project folder named `hw04-nested-travel`.

## Background

We’ve been asked to help build a new medieval adventuring game, _Summer Is Coming_. We’re trying to figure out the gameplay mechanics, so we’re starting with representations for travel around the universe. Players can live in three types of _housing_: a `Hut`, an `Inn`, and a `Castle`.

A `Hut` has a `capacity` and the current count of its `population`. The population must be less than the capacity.

An `Inn` has a `name`, `capacity` and the current count of its `population` as well as the number of open `stalls` in its stable. The population must be less than the capacity.

A `Castle` has a `name`, the `family-name` of the owners, the current count of its `population` as well as the number of `carriages` it can hold in its carriage-house.

There are 2 types of transportation in this game:
- `Horse`
- `Carriage`

Each type of transportation should have a _`from`_ and a _`to`_ housing. Horses also have a `name` and a `color`. They can only go to an inn if there is room in the stables, but they can go to any hovel or castle.

Carriages can only carry a limited supply of _`tonnage`_ and only travel from Inns to Castles or vice versa. When they go to a Castle there must be room for them in the carriage house.

## Tasks

* Starting with the code provided in [TravelStarter.java](TravelStarter.java), define classes for `Horse` and `Carriage`. (Note that an appropriate interface has already been defined for you in the starter code.)

* In a test class, named `TravelTests.java`, define six examples of housing, including:
  * `hovel`: Capacity 5, population 1
  * `winterfell`: Named `"Winterfell"`, family name `"Stark"`, population 500, can hold 6 carriages
  * `crossroads`: Named `"At The Crossroads"`, capacity 40, population 20, 12 stalls
  
  The others can be whatever you wish.

* Define at least four types of travel, two of each kind, named `horse1`, `carriage2`, etc.

* Add the following method to the `ITransport` interface:

      /* determines if this form of transportation can successfully
         journey to its destination */
      public boolean canTravel();

  For simplicity, this method only checks the `to` destination, not the
  origin `from` which the means of transport is attempting to travel.

  * You should first write some test cases/examples for this method in your `Tests` class. 
  * Then, to implement this method, you will probably be faced with a challenge because you should have a field declared like `IHousing to` in the `Horse` and `Carriage` classes. The problem is that you need to  check what type of housing it is in order to verify the validity of travel for each type of transport. We have said that in Java you should not have conditionals on the type of an object. So, instead, what you can do in this situation is add a pair of _overloaded_ helper methods to the `IHousing` interface:

        /** Determines if this housing type is a valid destination for the given horse */
        boolean isValidDestination(Horse h);

        /** Determines if this housing type is a valid destination for the given carriage */
        boolean isValidDestination(Carriage c);

    Implement each of these methods appropriately for the 3 types of housing. Then, in the `Horse` and `Carriage` classes, you can simply: `return to.isValidDestination(this);`  in the `canTravel()` methods.

  * Think about how this works. What **type** is the `this` in each class where the `return` statement occurs? That "static type" (i.e. determined through reading the source code) allows Java to dispatch to the appropriate version of `isValidDestination` in whatever class is appropriate to the "`to`" object. Note that we can't tell which actual concrete class the `to` object will be of, just by reading the source code. Thus, this is a "dynamic dispatch", because the decision is made when the program is actually running and execution/evaluation reaches this point in the code.


---

## Rubric
- `Horse` and `Carriage` appropriately defined, implement common interface
  - `from` and `to` fields have appropriate type
- `canTravel` and `isValidDestination()` methods properly defined
- Representative examples and test cases provided
- Code style (indentation, spacing, class & field names, capitalization conventions)
